The goal of this first lab assignment is primarily to introduce you to Wireshark. The following questions will demonstrate that you've been able to get Wireshark up and running, and have explored some of its capabilities. You'll begin by starting to capture network packet from the interface that your device  is connected to by launching the Wireshark. Open your web browser and perform some web operations. Stop packet capturing after sometime (preferably after 8 to 10 minutes). Answer the following questions, based on your Wireshark experimentation.


1) List up to 10 different protocols that appear in the protocol column in the unfiltered packet-listing window. Take screenshots of all the 10 protocols using appropriate filters.(5 marks)

2) While Wireshark is running, enter the URL: http://gaia.cs.umass.edu/wireshark-labs/INTRO-wireshark-file1.html, and have that page displayed in your browser. In order to display this page, your browser will contact the HTTP server at gaia.cs.umass.edu and exchange HTTP messages with the server in order to download this page. The Ethernet frames containing these HTTP messages will be captured by Wireshark. After your browser has displayed the INTRO-wireshark-file1.html page, stop Wireshark packet capture by selecting stop in the Wireshark capture window. This will cause the Wireshark capture window to disappear and the main Wireshark window to display all packets captured since you began packet capture. You now have live packet data that contains all protocol messages exchanged between your computer and other network entities! The HTTP message exchanges with the gaia.cs.umass.edu web server should appear somewhere in the listing of packets captured. Type in “http” (without the quotes, and in lower case – all protocol names are in lower case in Wireshark) into the display filter specification window at the top of the main Wireshark window. Then select Apply (to the right of where you entered “http”). This will cause only HTTP message to be displayed in the packet-listing window. How long did it take from when the HTTP GET message was sent until the HTTP OK reply was received? Include a screenshot and describe where you got the data to answer this question. (4 marks)

3) During the packet capturing session, open the www.cs.cmu.edu URL in the browser.  What is the Internet address (IP address) of www.cs.cmu.edu? What is the Internet address of your computer (This might be a private address, if you are behind a NAT device.)? Include a screenshot and describe where you got the data to answer this question. (4 marks)

4) How many packets did you capture (total of all protocols, not just HTTP)? Now, use display filters to determine how many packets contain your IP address. What is the filter you used? Now, reverse the filter to determine how many packets don’t contain your IP address. What is the filter you used? Include a screenshot and describe where you got the data to answer this question (4 marks)

5) Setup a local FTP server on your machine. You need to use a terminal or command windows  to log into the FTP server, and use Wireshark to capture the password. Set the username for the FTP server as CS509-student, and the password as IITRPR-cs509. Use this username and password to login the FTP server while Wireshark is running. Note that the FTP server is installed on the localhost, make sure you select the right interface for the capturing. You need to explain how you determined the password by taking screenshot of the captured password packet.(4 marks)

NOTE regarding assignment implementation::

1) Turn in your answers in a single PDF file to the Google classroom. In addition, you'll have also have to reproduce your answers by executing the above processes to the TAs for evaluation.
2) Plagiarism will be penalized with deduction in assignment marks.